 The page you are looking for does not exist or has been moved. To find what you’re looking for, try one of the following: &nbsp;Important Notice: Fraudulent Schemes Impersonating AQR Capital Management, LLC and Affiliates (collectively, "AQR") &nbsp;Important Notice: Fraudulent Schemes Impersonating AQR More Info &nbsp; There have been recent incidents of individuals and groups falsely claiming to be associated with AQR on social media platforms. These imposters have engaged in a variety of unauthorized conduct, including soliciting customers to carry out trading activities with them, impersonating AQR using the genuine names of AQR senior executives or employees to offer investment opportunities, claiming to offer investment training courses that are supposedly provided by AQR or claiming that AQR is backing certain initial coin offerings or is otherwise engaged in crypto related trading activity. There have also been fake websites and mobile applications that claim to be AQR (or associated with AQR) when in fact they are not. These are scams and not authorized by AQR in any way.&nbsp; Please be aware that AQR does not engage in any investment activities, provide training or financial services, or conduct other regulated activities through social media platforms or messaging apps. Similarly, AQR, its executives and employees do&nbsp; not contact prospects, clients or members of the public via social media platforms or messaging apps such as WhatsApp, Discord and Telegram to offer investment opportunities. AQR does not offer direct investments in cryptocurrencies or other digital assets, it does not provide a trading platform to members of the public, it does not have a mobile app, and it does not offer investment training courses to the public.&nbsp; AQR and its partners, employees, directors, officers, advisors, successors, and agents are not responsible for any conduct by unauthorized parties and channels, nor are they responsible for the services or information provided by such unauthorized parties and channels. If you have any questions or wish to ascertain whether you are communicating with an authorized representative of AQR, please contact us at https://www.aqr.com/Contact-Us . If you believe that you or someone you know has been a victim of fraud, please report the matter to your local law enforcement or other relevant authorities. For India residents, you may lodge a report at the national cybercrime reporting portal ( https://cybercrime.gov.in ). MyAQR Education Research Cliff&#39;s Perspectives Alternative Thinking Tax Matters Data Sets Quick Takes Learning Center Subscribe What We Do Our Approach Alternatives Equities Tax-Aware US Mutual Funds Australia Funds Flex UCITS Funds US Mutual Funds Australia Funds Flex UCITS Funds Our Firm About Us Leadership Careers Contact Us MyAQR Log In Register Contact Us The page you are looking for does not exist or has been moved. To find what you’re looking for, try one of the following: Search For What You Were Looking For &gt; Browse the Main Areas of the Site Home &gt; Education &gt; Strategies &gt; About Us &gt; Education Research Cliff&#39;s Perspectives Alternative Thinking Tax Matters Data Sets Quick Takes Learning Center Subscribe What We Do Our Approach Alternatives Equities Tax-Aware Our Firm About Us Leadership Careers News Contact Us MyAQR Log In Register Cookie Settings Privacy Policy Social Media Disclaimers Terms of Use Disability Accommodation for Applicants Form CRS Equal Opportunity Employer ©2026 AQR Capital Management, LLC. All rights reserved. You are now leaving AQR.com AQR Capital Management, LLC, (“AQR”) provides links to third-party websites only as a convenience, and the inclusion of such links does not imply any endorsement, approval, investigation, verification or monitoring by us of any content or information contained within or accessible from the linked sites. If you choose to visit the linked sites, you do so at your own risk, and you will be subject to such sites&#39; terms of use and privacy policies, over which AQR.com has no control. In no event will AQR be responsible for any information or content within the linked sites or your use of the linked sites. Cancel Proceed You are now leaving AQR.com You are about to leave AQR.com and are being re-directed to the {siteName}. Please note that {siteName} site may be subject to rules and regulations that may differ significantly from those to which the AQR website is subject and may not be appropriate for use by residents in all jurisdictions. Your access to and use of the {siteName} site will be subject to the applicable Terms of Use posted on the site. Cancel Proceed 