 Investor Bulletin: Questions to Ask when Hiring an Investment Professional | Investor.gov Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Here’s how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Investor.gov U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Auxiliary Header About Us Contact Us Follow Us Glossary Información en Español Search Investor.gov Main navigation Introduction to Investing Getting Started Five Questions to Ask Before You Invest Understanding Fees Asset Allocation and Diversification Investing on Your Own Working with an Investment Professional Researching Investments Investing Basics Save and Invest Invest For Your Goals How Stock Markets Work Investment Accounts Investment Products Glossary What is Risk? Role of the SEC General Resources Investor Alerts &amp; Bulletins Publications and Research Financial Tools &amp; Calculators Financial Tools Investment Professional Background Check EDGAR - Search Company Filings Fund Analyzer Retirement Ballpark E$timate Social Security Retirement Estimator Calculators Compound Interest Calculator Savings Goal Calculator Required Minimum Distribution Calculator College Savings Calculator Protect Your Investments Fraud Types of Fraud How to Avoid Fraud Resources for Victims Get Help Submit Questions and Complaints Arbitration and Mediation Clinics Additional Resources Spotlight Common Scams Crypto Assets HoweyTrade Never Stop Learning Public Service Campaign World Investor Week Investing Quizzes Videos Retirement Toolkit First Job Switching Jobs Employer-Sponsored Plans Federal Government Plans Managing Lifetime Income Senior Specialist Designations Social Security Avoiding Retirement Fraud Information For: Students Military Veterans Older Investors Teachers Youth Entrepreneurs Breadcrumb Home Introduction to Investing Investor Alerts and Bulletins Main navigation (Alerts) Investor Alerts &amp; Bulletins Publications and Research Investor Bulletin: Questions to Ask when Hiring an Investment Professional June 26, 2019 Before investing in stock or other securities, you may decide to seek the help of an investment professional.&nbsp; Selecting this investment professional is an important decision. This Investor Bulletin provides you with questions you should ask before hiring any investment professional. Experience and Background What experience do you have, especially with people like me? What percentage of your time would you estimate that you spend on people with situations and goals that are similar to mine? What education have you had that relates to your work? What professional licenses do you hold? Are you registered with the SEC, a state securities regulator, or FINRA? How long have you done this type of work? Have you ever been disciplined by a regulator? If yes, what was the problem and how was it resolved? Have you ever had any legal action (e.g., lawsuits or criminal charges) brought against you? If yes, please describe the legal action and how it was resolved? Have you had customer complaints? If yes, how many, what were they about, and how were they resolved? Products What type of products do you offer? How many different products do you offer? Do you offer “house” products? If so, what types of products are they, and do you receive any incentives or benefits for selling these products, or for maintaining them in a customer’s account? What kind of incentives or benefits are they? How could this affect me? Payments and Fees How do you get paid? How does your firm get paid? Given my situation and what I’m looking for, what is the [best / most cost effective] way for me to pay for financial services? Why? What are the fees that I will pay for products and services? How and when will I see the fees I pay? Which of those fees will I pay directly (such as a commission on a stock trade) and which are taken directly from the products I own (such as some mutual fund expenses)? If I invested $1000 with you today, approximately how much would you get paid during the following year, based on my investment? Does someone else (such as a fund company) pay you or your firm for offering or selling these products or services? Do you receive any other incentives or benefits for selling these products? If so, what are they and how do they affect me? Expectations of the Relationship How often should I expect to hear from you? How often will you review or monitor my account? Are there any limitations to this type of service with my account? How often will you make recommendations to me? If my investments are not doing well, will you call me and recommend something else? If I invest with you, how can I keep track of how well my investments are doing? Additional Resources Investor Bulletin: How to Select an Investment Professional Investor Bulletin: Making Sense of Financial Professional Titles Investor Bulletin: How to Check Out Your Investment Professional Investor Bulletin: How Fees and Expense Affect Your Investment Portfolio Conversation Starters The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy has provided this information as a service to investors. It is neither a legal interpretation nor a statement of SEC policy. If you have questions concerning the meaning or application of a particular law or rule, please consult with an attorney who specializes in securities or tax law. Featured Content Take This Month&#039;s Quiz Check your knowledge of Trump Accounts in our September investing quiz! &nbsp; Jumpstart Your Child&#039;s Financial Future Learn how to enroll in a Trump Account today!&nbsp; Use Financial Tools and Calculators Access RMD, compound interest and savings goal calculators plus other financial tools. Invest in Your Future. Protect It Today. Learn more about World Investor Week, a global campaign to raise awareness about the importance of investor education and protection. &nbsp; Never stop learning about investing! Stay up to date with Investor Alerts &amp; Bulletins, Quizzes, and more.&nbsp; Get Email Updates from Investor.gov Sign up for Investor Updates Enter Email Address &nbsp; Site Information SEC.gov MyMoney.gov FOIA Plain Writing Privacy Vulnerability Disclosure Policy USA.gov Disclaimer Multilingual Disclaimer Return to Top 