 Short Interest – What It Is, What It Is Not | FINRA.org Skip to main content FINRA Utility Menu About Us Careers BrokerCheck Data Media Center For Firms For the Public FINRA DATA FINRA Data provides non-commercial use of data, specifically the ability to save data views and create and manage a Bond Watchlist. Login For Industry Professionals FINPRO GATEWAY Registered representatives can fulfill Continuing Education requirements, view their industry CRD record and perform other compliance tasks. Login For Member Firms FINRA GATEWAY Firm compliance professionals can access filings and requests, run reports and submit support tickets. Login For Case Participants DR PORTAL Arbitration and mediation case participants and FINRA neutrals can view case information and submit documents through this Dispute Resolution Portal. Login Need Help? | Check System Status Log In to other FINRA systems Rules & Guidance R&G Section 1 FINRA Manual Updates Interpreting the Rules Notices Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Key Topics Interpretive Questions R&G Section 2 The Rulemaking Process Rule Filings Rule Filing Status Report Requests for Comments Regulatory Policy Agenda Rulebook Consolidation R&G Section 3 Adjudications & Decisions National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) Office of Hearing Officers (OHO) R&G Section 4 Enforcement Disciplinary Actions Online Monthly Disciplinary Actions Sanction Guidelines Individuals Barred by FINRA Registration, Exams & CE Registration section 1 Registration Broker Dealers Capital Acquisition Brokers Funding Portals Individuals Registration Section 2 Qualification Exams Securities Industry Essentials Exam (SIE) Series 7 Continuing Education (CE) View a Regulatory Element Learning Plan Registration Section 3 Registration Systems Classic CRD Financial Professional Gateway (FinPro) Financial Industry Networking Directory (FIND) Events & Training Events & Training Section 1 Upcoming Events On-Demand Education FINRA Crypto and Blockchain Education Program FINRA Certified Regulatory and Compliance Professional (CRCP)® Program Financial Learning Experience (FLEX) Technical & Navigational Webinars Filing & Reporting Filing & Reporting Section 1 FINRA Gateway Systems Status Entitlement Program Financial Intelligence Fusion Center (FIFC) Market Transparency Reporting Tools Regulatory Filing Systems Data Transfer Tools E-Bill Compliance Tools Compliance Tools Section 1 Anti-Money Laundering Template Cybersecurity Checklist Compliance Calendar Weekly Update Email Archive Membership Application Program (MAP) Tools Report Center For Investors For Investors Section 1 Investor Insights Tools & Calculators Personal Finance Financial Goals Net Worth Spending Debt Credit Scores Emergency Funds For Investors Section 2 Investing Investing Basics Investment Accounts Investment Products Investment Strategies Working With an Investment Professional Protect Your Money Check Registration Avoid Fraud Watch for Red Flags Safeguard Your Identity Financial Industry Investor Resources For Investors Section 3 For the Military Need Help? File a Complaint FINRA Securities Helpline for Seniors Dispute Resolution Services SIPC Protection Avenues for Recovery of Losses FINRA Utility Menu About Us Careers BrokerCheck Data Media Center For Firms For the Public FINRA DATA FINRA Data provides non-commercial use of data, specifically the ability to save data views and create and manage a Bond Watchlist. Login For Industry Professionals FINPRO GATEWAY Registered representatives can fulfill Continuing Education requirements, view their industry CRD record and perform other compliance tasks. Login For Member Firms FINRA GATEWAY Firm compliance professionals can access filings and requests, run reports and submit support tickets. Login For Case Participants DR PORTAL Arbitration and mediation case participants and FINRA neutrals can view case information and submit documents through this Dispute Resolution Portal. Login Need Help? | Check System Status Log In to other FINRA systems Font Awesome fontawesome.com --> For Investors Investor Insights EXPLORE THIS SECTION FINRA Main Navigation Investor Insights Tools & Calculators Personal Finance Investing Investing Basics Investment Accounts Investment Products Investment Strategies Working With an Investment Professional Protect Your Money Check Registration Avoid Fraud Watch for Red Flags Safeguard Your Identity Financial Industry Investor Resources For the Military Need Help? Stocks Short Interest – What It Is, What It Is Not January 25, 2023 What Is Short Interest? To understand what short interest is, we should first talk about short sales. Put simply, a short sale involves the sale of a stock an investor does not own. When an investor engages in short selling, two things can happen. If the price of the stock drops, the short seller can buy the stock at the lower price and make a profit. If the price of the stock rises, the short seller will lose money. An investor may engage in short selling for many reasons, such as to profit from a decline in the price of a stock or to hedge the risk of other positions. To open a short position, an investor places a short sale order with their brokerage firm in a stock that the investor does not own. This is done in a margin account . Because the investor does not own the shares, the brokerage firm will look to “locate” shares prior to executing the short sale. These shares may be identified in the brokerage firm’s inventory, the margin accounts of other customers or another source. Once the trade is executed, the investor’s margin account will show the proceeds of the sale. Ultimately, the investor must obtain these securities to close the position. Until this occurs, the investor’s account will reflect a short position. To close the position, the investor can purchase the stock in the market, which they hope will be at a lower price than they sold the shares short. “Short interest” is a snapshot of the total open short positions existing on the books and records of brokerage firms for all equity securities on a given settlement date. Short interest data is collected for all stocks—both those that are listed and traded on an exchange and those that are traded over-the-counter (OTC) . FINRA and U.S. exchange rules require that brokerage firms report short interest data to FINRA on a per-security basis for all customer and proprietary firm accounts twice a month, around the middle of the month and again at the end of each month. For stocks listed on a U.S. exchange, FINRA shares the data with the listing exchange. FINRA also publishes the short interest reports it collects from member firms for all exchange-listed and over-the-counter equity securities on its Equity Short Interest Data page free for the broader investing public. What Short Interest Is Not In addition to short interest data, FINRA also publishes short sale volume data. The daily short sale volume data provides aggregated volume by security for all off-exchange short sale trades. This data excludes any trading activity that is not publicly disseminated and is not consolidated with exchange data. Some market participants mistakenly conclude that the bimonthly short interest data is understated because the Short Sale Volume Daily File reflects volume that is much larger than the positions reported as short interest. However, short interest position data does not—and is not intended to—equate to the daily short sale volume data posted on FINRA’s website. The short interest data is just a snapshot that reflects short positions held by brokerage firms at a specific moment in time on two discrete days each month. The Short Sale Volume Daily File reflects the aggregate volume of trades within certain parameters executed as short sales on individual trade dates. Therefore, while the two data sets are related in that short sale volume activity may ultimately result in a reportable short interest position, they are not the same. Investors might establish short positions in a security that continue to exist for varying lengths of time, which can result in a short position being represented in one of the data sets but not the other. For example, an investor might sell a security short and purchase shares to close the position on the same trade date. That position would not appear in the short interest data, though the short sale transaction would appear on the Short Sale Volume Daily File. On the other hand, an investor might hold a short position open for days or weeks, perhaps as a hedge against another position. While the short sale transaction that established that short position would appear in the Short Sale Volume Daily File only on the date the short sale transaction occurred, the short position would continue to be reflected in the short interest data for as long as the position remained open. Learn more about short sale volume data. What Should I Know About Short Interest Data? Some websites might redistribute the Short Sale Volume Daily File and refer to the data as “short interest,” but this is incorrect because, as explained above, short sale volume data is not the equivalent of short interest position data. In addition, the specific information that an investor sees depends on the source. Often, the data shown on free investor sites represents the results of a proprietary calculation and not the raw short interest data that FINRA and the exchanges disseminate. Different data providers may use different methodologies for calculating and displaying short sale information that are beyond FINRA’s control. Investors are encouraged to seek information from the data provider to understand how the data displayed is derived. TOOLS & CALCULATORS Smart Investing Courses Market Data Center Fixed Income Data BrokerCheck Fund Analyzer View All Recent Investor Insights Avoid Fraud Avoiding Pump-and-Dump Scams Investing Basics Understanding Disclosure Documents Investment Risk Know the Risks of Pre-IPO Funds and Potential Fraud View All FINRA Utility Menu About Us Careers BrokerCheck Data Media Center For Firms FINRA Main Navigation Rules & Guidance Registration, Exams & CE Events & Training Filing & Reporting Compliance Tools For Investors General Inquiries 301-590-6500 Securities Helpline for Seniors ® 844-574-3577 (Mon-Fri 9am-5pm ET) File a Regulatory Tip To report on abuse or fraud in the industry Arbitration & Mediation FINRA operates the largest securities dispute resolution forum in the United States File an Investor Complaint File a complaint about fraud or unfair practices. Small Firm Help Line 833-26-FINRA (Mon-Fri 9am-6pm ET) Office of the Ombuds Report a concern about FINRA at 888-700-0028 Footer Legal Links Site Map Privacy Policy Terms of Use Translate Contact Us © 2026 FINRA. All Rights Reserved. FINRA is a Registered Trademark of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. 